
## Q9: Analyze something

I decided to look at the general population breakout, as I found those quantities for the 2000 and 2010 census as well.  

[Link to 2010 Census Overview](../reference/2010 Census overview.pdf)  

I wanted to compare apples to apples, so I created a Hadoop job that calculated the same population breakdowns as the new
data contained.  Generally speaking, it broke down into youths, young adult, mid adult, and older adult.  

I then moved that data into [Excel](../reference/Q9Workbook.xlsx) and graphed it.  That resulted in [this document](../reference/Q9Workbook.pdf).

This was interesting for several reasons.

1. I question some of my results.  I did have to triple-check everything, and found that I had miscopied some data over from 
 the original results.  After that correction, things are mostly making sense.
2. There are minor variations between M/F distribution, but in general, they're sticking to slightly more women than men, which 
I had generally heard before.  
3. There is a slight uptick in people aged 65 and older.  There would be more research to be done to see if that is because
of factors like healthcare, diet, etc.
4. The main area where I question my data is in people under 18 years old.  It seems to be a staggering reduction in those 
under 18 from 1990 to 2000.  Unless there were massive deaths, I would expect a similar uptick in those young adult numbers, which didn't 
happen.  In order to look into this, I added my 1990 male count to the 1990 female count, and found that added together, they
totalled more than the total population.  After looking into my code, I see no clear reason why this would occur.  I believe that
the error is in the under 18 calculation though.  
5. There is a steady decline of the percent of young adults, and a corresponding increase in the percent of middle age adults.  This
points to a general aging of the population, which probably came from the baby boomer population transitioning from their mid to late 40s.  

## My Hadoop results

    United States:
    _______________________
    
    0.0 Total Population          : 256012138
    1.1 Male                      : 127043167
    1.2 Female                    : 132097298
    2.1 Under 18 years old        : 119251255
    2.2 18 to 44 years old        : 121537719
    2.3 45 to 64 years old        : 47387392
    2.4 65 years and older        : 31669400